# avmedia
# ==============================================
avmedia/res/av02048.png cmd/sc_avmediaplayer.png
avmedia/res/av02049.png cmd/sc_runbasic.png
avmedia/res/av02050.png cmd/sc_mediapause.png
avmedia/res/av02051.png cmd/sc_basicstop.png
avmedia/res/av02052.png cmd/sc_mediarepeat.png
avmedia/res/av02053.png cmd/sc_ok.png
avmedia/res/av02054.png cmd/sc_mediamute.png
avmedia/res/avl02048.png cmd/lc_avmediaplayer.png
avmedia/res/avl02049.png cmd/lc_runbasic.png
avmedia/res/avl02050.png cmd/lc_mediapause.png
avmedia/res/avl02051.png cmd/lc_basicstop.png
avmedia/res/avl02052.png cmd/lc_mediarepeat.png
avmedia/res/avl02053.png cmd/lc_ok.png
avmedia/res/avl02054.png cmd/lc_mediamute.png

# chart2
# ==============================================
chart2/res/dataeditor_icon01.png cmd/sc_insertrowsafter.png
chart2/res/dataeditor_icon02.png cmd/sc_insertcolumnsafter.png
chart2/res/dataeditor_icon03.png cmd/sc_deleterows.png
chart2/res/dataeditor_icon04.png cmd/sc_deletecolumns.png
chart2/res/dataeditor_icon05.png cmd/sc_insertcellsright.png
chart2/res/dataeditor_icon06.png cmd/sc_insertcellsdown.png
chart2/res/dataeditor_icon07.png cmd/sc_insertcolumnsafter.png

# cmd
# ==============================================

# Open
cmd/lc_openfromwriter.png cmd/lc_open.png
cmd/lc_openfromcalc.png cmd/lc_open.png
cmd/lc_openremote.png cmd/lc_open.png
cmd/sc_openfromwriter.png cmd/sc_open.png
cmd/sc_openfromcalc.png cmd/sc_open.png
cmd/sc_openremote.png cmd/sc_open.png

# Hyperlink
cmd/lc_hyperlinkdialog.png cmd/lc_inserthyperlink.png
cmd/sc_hyperlinkdialog.png cmd/sc_inserthyperlink.png

# Spellcheck
cmd/lc_spellingandgrammardialog.png cmd/lc_spelling.png
cmd/lc_spelldialog.png cmd/lc_spelling.png
cmd/sc_spellingandgrammardialog.png cmd/sc_spelling.png
cmd/sc_spelldialog.png cmd/sc_spelling.png

# Color
cmd/lc_fontcolor.png cmd/lc_color.png
cmd/sc_fontcolor.png cmd/sc_color.png

# Textbox
cmd/lc_drawtext.png cmd/lc_text.png
cmd/sc_drawtext.png cmd/sc_text.png

# Paragraph Alignment
cmd/lc_leftpara.png cmd/lc_alignleft.png
cmd/lc_centerpara.png cmd/lc_alignhorizontalcenter.png
cmd/lc_rightpara.png cmd/lc_alignright.png
cmd/lc_justifypara.png cmd/lc_alignblock.png
cmd/sc_leftpara.png cmd/sc_alignleft.png
cmd/sc_centerpara.png cmd/sc_alignhorizontalcenter.png
cmd/sc_rightpara.png cmd/sc_alignright.png
cmd/sc_justifypara.png cmd/sc_alignblock.png

# Vertical Text Alignment
cmd/lc_cellverttop.png cmd/lc_aligntop.png
cmd/lc_cellvertcenter.png cmd/lc_alignvcenter.png
cmd/lc_cellvertbottom.png cmd/lc_alignbottom.png
cmd/sc_cellverttop.png cmd/sc_aligntop.png
cmd/sc_cellvertcenter.png cmd/sc_alignvcenter.png
cmd/sc_cellvertbottom.png cmd/sc_alignbottom.png

# paragraph line spacing drop down
cmd/lc_linespacing.png cmd/lc_spacepara15.png
cmd/sc_linespacing.png cmd/sc_spacepara15.png

# calc menu entries
cmd/sc_datapilotmenu.png cmd/sc_datadatapilotrun.png
cmd/sc_insertrowsmenu.png cmd/sc_insertrows.png
cmd/sc_insertcolumnsmenu.png cmd/sc_insertcolumns.png
cmd/sc_functiondialog.png cmd/sc_insertformula.png

# Shapes
cmd/lc_basicshapes.png cmd/lc_basicshapes.diamond.png
cmd/lc_basicshapes.ellipse.png cmd/lc_ellipse.png
cmd/lc_basicshapes.rectangle.png cmd/lc_rect.png
cmd/lc_rectangletoolbox.png cmd/lc_rect.png
cmd/lc_linetoolbox.png cmd/lc_freeline.png
cmd/lc_ellipsetoolbox.png cmd/lc_ellipse.png
cmd/sc_basicshapes.png cmd/sc_basicshapes.diamond.png
cmd/sc_basicshapes.ellipse.png cmd/sc_ellipse.png
cmd/sc_basicshapes.rectangle.png cmd/sc_rect.png
cmd/sc_rectangletoolbox.png cmd/sc_rect.png
cmd/sc_linetoolbox.png cmd/sc_freeline.png
cmd/sc_ellipsetoolbox.png cmd/sc_ellipse.png

# Number Formats
cmd/lc_numberformatdate.png cmd/lc_datefield.png
cmd/sc_numberformatdate.png cmd/sc_datefield.png

# Find Toolbar
cmd/lc_scrolltonext.png cmd/lc_downsearch.png
cmd/sc_scrolltonext.png cmd/sc_downsearch.png
cmd/lc_scrolltoprevious.png cmd/lc_upsearch.png
cmd/sc_scrolltoprevious.png cmd/sc_upsearch.png

# File Menu
cmd/lc_exporttopdf.png cmd/lc_exportdirecttopdf.png
cmd/sc_exporttopdf.png cmd/sc_exportdirecttopdf.png

# sort
cmd/lc_sortdown.png cmd/lc_sortdescending.png
cmd/lc_sortup.png cmd/lc_sortascending.png
cmd/lc_tablesort.png cmd/lc_sortascending.png
cmd/sc_sortdown.png cmd/sc_sortdescending.png
cmd/sc_sortup.png cmd/sc_sortascending.png
cmd/sc_tablesort.png cmd/sc_sortascending.png

# browse
cmd/lc_browsebackward cmd/lc_pageup.png
cmd/lc_browseforward.png cmd/lc_pagedown.png
cmd/sc_browsebackward cmd/sc_pageup.png
cmd/sc_browseforward.png cmd/sc_pagedown.png

# language support for rtl
# doesn't work for all other languages
#cmd/lc_redo.png cmd/ar/lc_undo.png
#cmd/lc_undo.png cmd/ar/lc_redo.png
#cmd/sc_redo.png cmd/ar/sc_undo.png
#cmd/sc_undo.png cmd/ar/sc_redo.png

#cmd/lc_redo.png cmd/fa/lc_undo.png
#cmd/lc_undo.png cmd/fa/lc_redo.png
#cmd/sc_redo.png cmd/fa/sc_undo.png
#cmd/sc_undo.png cmd/fa/sc_redo.png

#cmd/lc_redo.png cmd/he/lc_undo.png
#cmd/lc_undo.png cmd/he/lc_redo.png
#cmd/sc_redo.png cmd/he/sc_undo.png
#cmd/sc_undo.png cmd/he/sc_redo.png

# text background colour Impress/Draw
cmd/sc_charbackcolor.png cmd/sc_backcolor.png
cmd/lc_charbackcolor.png cmd/lc_backcolor.png
cmd/lc_setdefault.png cmd/lc_resetattributes.png
cmd/sc_setdefault.png cmd/sc_resetattributes.png

# Toggle graphics visibility in Writer
cmd/sc_showgraphics.png cmd/sc_graphic.png

# database
# ==============================================
database/linked_text_table.png cmd/sc_dataimport.png

# dbaccess
# ==============================================
dbaccess/res/all_left.png cmd/sc_firstrecord.png
dbaccess/res/all_right.png cmd/sc_lastrecord.png
dbaccess/res/db.png cmd/sc_viewdatasourcebrowser.png
dbaccess/res/exerror.png cmd/sc_cancel.png
dbaccess/res/exinfo.png cmd/sc_helpindex.png
dbaccess/res/form_16.png cmd/sc_dbformedit.png
dbaccess/res/forms_16.png cmd/sc_dbformedit.png
dbaccess/res/forms_32.png res/forms_32.png
dbaccess/res/lc036.png cmd/lc_dbnewreport.png
dbaccess/res/lc037.png cmd/lc_delete.png
dbaccess/res/lc038.png cmd/lc_editdoc.png
dbaccess/res/lc039.png cmd/lc_save.png
dbaccess/res/lc040.png cmd/lc_reload.png
dbaccess/res/nu07.png cmd/sc_ok.png
dbaccess/res/nu08.png cmd/sc_cancel.png
dbaccess/res/one_left.png cmd/sc_prevrecord.png
dbaccess/res/one_right.png cmd/sc_nextrecord.png
dbaccess/res/jo01.png dbaccess/res/pkey.png
dbaccess/res/queries_32.png res/queries_32.png
dbaccess/res/report_16.png cmd/sc_executereport.png
dbaccess/res/reports_16.png cmd/sc_executereport.png
dbaccess/res/reports_32.png res/reports_32.png
dbaccess/res/sc036.png cmd/sc_executereport.png
dbaccess/res/sc037.png cmd/sc_delete.png
dbaccess/res/sc038.png cmd/sc_editdoc.png
dbaccess/res/sc039.png cmd/sc_save.png
dbaccess/res/sc040.png cmd/sc_reload.png
dbaccess/res/sortdown.png cmd/sc_sortascending.png
dbaccess/res/sortup.png cmd/sc_sortdescending.png
dbaccess/res/tables_32.png res/tables_32.png

# desktop
# ==============================================
desktop/res/caution_16.png dbaccess/res/exwarning.png
desktop/res/info_16.png cmd/sc_helpindex.png
desktop/res/lock_16.png cmd/sc_protect.png

# extensions
# ==============================================
extensions/res/arrow.png cmd/sc_nextrecord.png
extensions/res/buttonminus.png extensions/source/scanner/minus.png
extensions/res/buttonplus.png extensions/source/scanner/plus.png

# formula
# ==============================================
formula/res/fapclose.png cmd/sc_open.png
formula/res/faperror.png cmd/sc_cancel.png
formula/res/fapok.png cmd/sc_ok.png
formula/res/fapopen.png cmd/sc_open.png
formula/res/fx.png cmd/sc_dbviewfunctions.png

# fpicker
# ==============================================
fpicker/res/fp011.png cmd/sc_firstpage.png
fpicker/res/fp011.png cmd/sc_filecontrol.png
fpicker/res/fp011.png cmd/sc_starshapes.png
fpicker/res/fp011.png desktop/res/shared_16.png

# reportdesign
# ==============================================
reportdesign/res/report_16.png cmd/sc_executereport.png
reportdesign/res/sc30770.png cmd/sc_cancel.png
reportdesign/res/sx11047.png cmd/sc_basicshapes.diamond.png
reportdesign/res/sx12454.png cmd/sc_alignright.png
reportdesign/res/sx12464.png cmd/sc_executereport.png
reportdesign/res/sx12594.png cmd/sc_dbviewfunctions.png

# sc
# ==============================================
sc/imglst/lc26047.png cmd/lc_dbviewfunctions.png
sc/imglst/lc26048.png cmd/lc_autosum.png
sc/imglst/lc26050.png cmd/lc_cancel.png
sc/imglst/lc26051.png cmd/lc_ok.png
sc/imglst/na010.png cmd/sc_selectobject.png
sc/imglst/na011.png cmd/lc_ok.png
sc/imglst/nc03.png cmd/sc_viewdatasourcebrowser.png
sc/imglst/nc04.png cmd/sc_gallery.png
sc/imglst/nc05.png cmd/sc_insertobject.png
sc/imglst/nc06.png cmd/sc_insertannotation.png
sc/imglst/nc07.png sc/res/droplink.png
sc/imglst/nc08.png cmd/sc_gallery.png
sc/imglst/sc26047.png cmd/sc_dbviewfunctions.png
sc/imglst/sc26048.png cmd/sc_autosum.png
sc/imglst/sc26050.png cmd/sc_cancel.png
sc/imglst/sc26051.png cmd/sc_ok.png

# FolderTree expanded icon
# ==============================================
svtools/res/folderop.png formula/res/fapopen.png

# sw
# ==============================================

# imglst
sw/imglst/lc20556.png cmd/lc_dbviewfunctions.png
sw/imglst/lc20557.png cmd/lc_cancel.png
sw/imglst/lc20558.png cmd/lc_ok.png
sw/imglst/nc20001.png cmd/sc_inserttable.png
sw/imglst/nc20002.png cmd/sc_diagramarea.png
sw/imglst/nc20003.png cmd/sc_imagebutton.png
sw/imglst/nc20004.png cmd/sc_insertobject.png
sw/imglst/nc20005.png cmd/sc_insertbookmark.png
sw/imglst/nc20007.png cmd/sc_inserthyperlink.png
sw/imglst/nc20008.png cmd/sc_insertreferencefield.png
sw/imglst/nc20009.png cmd/sc_insertindexesentry.png
sw/imglst/nc20010.png cmd/sc_showannotations.png
sw/imglst/nc20011.png cmd/sc_toggleobjectbeziermode.png
sw/imglst/re01.png cmd/lc_unsetcellsreadonly.png
sw/imglst/re02.png cmd/lc_unsetcellsreadonly.png
sw/imglst/re03.png cmd/sc_protect.png
sw/imglst/re04.png cmd/sc_protect.png
sw/imglst/sc20171.png cmd/sc_downsearch.png
sw/imglst/sc20172.png cmd/sc_prevrecord.png
sw/imglst/sc20173.png cmd/sc_nextrecord.png
sw/imglst/sc20174.png cmd/sc_upsearch.png
sw/imglst/sc20175.png cmd/sc_nextrecord.png
sw/imglst/sc20182.png cmd/sc_anchormenu.png
sw/imglst/sc20186.png cmd/sc_prevrecord.png
sw/imglst/sc20233.png cmd/sc_ok.png
sw/imglst/sc20235.png cmd/sc_editdoc.png
sw/imglst/sc20238.png sc/res/droplink.png
sw/imglst/sc20239.png cmd/sc_copy.png
sw/imglst/sc20245.png cmd/sc_editdoc.png
sw/imglst/sc20246.png sc/res/droplink.png
sw/imglst/sc20248.png cmd/sc_save.png
sw/imglst/sc20249.png cmd/sc_navigator.png
sw/imglst/sc20556.png cmd/sc_dbviewfunctions.png
sw/imglst/sc20557.png cmd/sc_cancel.png
sw/imglst/sc20558.png cmd/sc_ok.png
sw/imglst/sc_datainrows.png cmd/sc_datainrows.png
sw/imglst/sf02.png cmd/sc_charfontname.png
sw/imglst/sf03.png cmd/sc_diagramarea.png
sw/imglst/sf04.png cmd/sc_showsinglepage.png
sw/imglst/sf05.png cmd/sc_defaultbullet.png
sw/imglst/sr20000.png cmd/sc_downsearch.png
sw/imglst/sr20001.png cmd/sc_upsearch.png
sw/imglst/sr20002.png cmd/sc_inserttable.png
sw/imglst/sr20003.png cmd/sc_insertframe.png
sw/imglst/sr20004.png cmd/sc_showsinglepage.png
sw/imglst/sr20005d.png cmd/sc_inserthyperlink.png
sw/imglst/sr20005.png cmd/sc_editdoc.png
sw/imglst/sr20007.png sw/imglst/nc20006.png
sw/imglst/sr20008.png cmd/sc_insertbookmark.png
sw/imglst/sr20009.png cmd/sc_toggleobjectbeziermode.png
sw/imglst/sr20010.png cmd/sc_drawchart.png
sw/imglst/sr20011.png sw/imglst/nc20000.png
sw/imglst/sr20012.png cmd/sc_insertreferencefield.png
sw/imglst/sr20013.png cmd/sc_insertfootnote.png
sw/imglst/sr20014.png dbaccess/res/exwarning.png
sw/imglst/sr20015.png cmd/sc_insertbookmark.png
sw/imglst/sr20016.png cmd/sc_recsearch.png
sw/imglst/sr20017.png cmd/sc_insertindexesentry.png
sw/imglst/sr20018.png cmd/sc_inserttable.png
sw/imglst/sr20019.png cmd/sc_remove.png
sw/imglst/sx03.png cmd/sc_dbqueryedit.png

# navigation
sw/res/all_left.png cmd/sc_firstrecord.png
sw/res/all_right.png cmd/sc_lastrecord.png
sw/res/one_left.png cmd/sc_previouspage.png
sw/res/one_right.png cmd/sc_nextrecord.png
sw/res/page_break.png cmd/lc_insertpagebreak.png
sw/res/styfamnu.png cmd/sc_defaultbullet.png

# split cells duplicates
sw/res/zetlhor2.png svx/res/zetlhor2.png
sw/res/zetlver2.png svx/res/zetlver2.png

# vcl
# ==============================================
vcl/res/index.png cmd/sc_insertmultiindex.png

# xmlsecurity
# ==============================================
xmlsecurity/res/key_12.png dbaccess/res/pkey.png
xmlsecurity/res/signet_11x16.png xmlsecurity/res/notcertificate_16.png
