.TH libreoffice "1" "2010-12-18" "LibreOffice" "User Commands"
.SH Name
libreoffice \- LibreOffice office suite

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B libreoffice
[\fB\-\-accept\=\fIaccept\-string\fR] [\fB\-\-base\fR] [\fB\-\-calc\fR]
[\fB\-\-convert\-to\fR output_file_extension[:output_filter_name] [\-\-outdir output_dir] \fIfile\fR]...
[\fB\-\-display \fIdisplay\fR] [\fB\-\-draw\fR] [\fB\-\-global\fR] [\fB\-\-headless\fR]
[\fB\-\-help\fR|\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-?\fR] [\fB\-\-impress\fR] [\fB\-\-invisible\fR] [\fB\-\-infilter="<filter>"\fR]
[\fB\-\-math\fR] [\fB\-\-minimized\fR] [\fB\-n \fIfile\fR]... [\fB\-\-nodefault\fR]
[\fB\-\-nolockcheck\fR] [\fB\-\-nologo\fR] [\fB\-\-norestore\fR]
[\fB\-o \fIfile\fR]... [\fB\-p \fIfile\fR...]
[\fB\-\-print\-to\-file [\-\-printer\-name printer_name] [\-\-outdir output_dir] file]...
[\fB\-\-pt \fIprintername\fR \fIfile\fR...]
[\fB\-\-show \fIImpress file\fR]... [\fB\-\-unaccept=\fIaccept\-string\fR]
[\fB\-\-terminate_after_init\fR] [\fB\-\-view \fIfile\fR]... [\fB\-\-web\fR]
[\fB\-\-writer\fR]  [\fIfile\fR...]
.br
.B lobase
.br
.B localc
.br
.B lodraw
.br
.B lofromtemplate
.br
.B loimpress
.br
.B lomath
.br
.B loweb
.br
.B lowriter
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
LibreOffice (LO for short) is a multi-platform office productivity suite.
It was derived from OpenOffice.org 3.3 Beta on September 28, 2010.

\fBlibreoffice\fR is a shell script that sets up the environment and
passes the command line arguments to the \fBsoffice.bin\fR binary.

Alternatively, the following helper scripts start the respective module:

sbase, scalc, sdraw, simpress, smath, sofficerc, swriter

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-accept=\fIaccept\-string\fR
Specifies an UNO-URL connect-string to create a UNO acceptor through which other
programs can connect to access the API. Note that API access allows execution
of arbitrary commands.
The syntax of an UNO-URL connect-string is:
\fIuno:connection-type,params;protocol-name,params;ObjectName\fR

.TP
\fB\-\-base\fR
Starts the wizard for a new Base document.

.TP
\fB\-\-calc\fR
Starts with a new Calc document.

.TP
\fB\-\-convert\-to\fR output_file_extension[:output_filter_name] [\-\-outdir output_dir] \fIfile\fR...
Batch converts files.
If \fI\-\-outdir\fR is not specified then the current working directory is used as the output directory
for the converted files. It implies \fI\-\-headless\fR.

Examples:

\fB\-\-convert\-to\fR pdf *.doc

Converts all .doc files to PDFs.

\fB\-\-convert\-to\fR pdf:writer_pdf_Export \-\-outdir /home/user *.doc

Converts all .doc files to PDFs using the settings in the Writer PDF export dialog and saving them
in /home/user.

.TP
\fB\-\-display \fIdisplay\fR
This option specifies the X server to use; see \fBX\fR(7)

.TP
\fB\-\-draw\fR
Starts with a new Draw document.

.TP
\fB\-\-global\fR
Starts with a new Global document.

.TP
\fB\-\-headless\fR
Starts in "headless mode", which allows using the application without user a
interface.

This special mode can be used when the application is controlled by external
clients via the API.

It implies \-\-invisible and strictly ignores any GUI environment.
\-\-quickstart does not work with this parameter.

.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR|\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-?\fR
Lists LibreOffice command line parameters.

.TP
\fB\-\-impress\fR
Starts with a new Impress document.

.TP
\fB\-\-invisible\fR
Starts in invisible mode.

Neither the start\-up logo nor the initial program window will be visible.
LO can be controlled and documents and dialogs can be opened via the API.

When started with this parameter, it can only be quit using the taskmanager (Windows)
or the kill command (UNIX based systems).

\-\-quickstart does not work with this parameter.

.TP
\fB\-\-infilter="<filter>"\fR
Force an input filter type if possible.
For example \-\-infilter="Calc Office Open XML" only

.TP
\fB\-\-math\fR
Starts with a new Math document.

.TP
\fB\-\-minimized\fR
Keeps the splash screen minimized.

.TP
\fB\-n \fItemplate\fR...
Creates the a new document from the given templates.

.TP
\fB\-\-nodefault\fR
Starts LO without creating a new document.
The next time you start LO, the welcome screen is shown.

It's used together with \fB\-\-nologo\fR by quick starters. Note that \fB\-\-quickstart\fR
has no longer been supported since OpenOffice.org 2.0.0.

.TP
\fB\-\-nolockcheck\fR
Disables the check for remote instances using the installation.

.TP
\fB\-\-nologo\fR
Disables the splash screen at program start.

.TP
\fB\-\-norestore\fR
Disables restart and file recovery after a system crash. It is possible that LO
will try to restore a file it keeps crashing on, if that happens \fB\-\-norestore\fR
is the only way to start LO.

.TP
\fB\-\-nosplash\fR
Disables the splash screen at program start.

.TP
\fB\-o \fIfile\fR...
Opens the given files for editing, even templates.

Without \fB\-o\fR a template file would create a new document derived from that template.

.TP
\fB\-p \fIfile\fR...
Prints the given files to the default printer and ends. The splash screen
does not appear.

If the file name contains spaces, then it must be enclosed in quotation marks.

.TP
\fB\-\-print\-to\-file [\-\-printer\-name printer_name] [\-\-outdir output_dir] file...
Batch print files to file.
If \-\-printer\-name is not specified the default printer is used.
If \-\-outdir is not specified then the current working directory is used as the output directory
for the converted files.

Examples:

\-\-print\-to\-file *.doc

Prints all .doc files to the current working directory using the default printer.

\-\-print\-to\-file \-\-printer\-name nasty_lowres_printer \-\-outdir /home/user *.doc

Prints all .doc files to /home/user directory using the nasty_lowres_printer.

.TP
\fB\-\-pt \fIprintername\fR \fIfile\fR...
Prints the given files to the printer \fIprintername\fR and ends. The splash
screen does not appear.

If a file name contains spaces, then it must be enclosed in quotation marks.

.TP
\fB\-\-quickstart \fB\-\-quickstart=no
Starts LO with its quick starter.
\fB\-\-quickstart disable the quick starter.

Does not work with \-\-invisible or \-\-headless.

.TP
\fB\-\-show \fIImpress file\fR...
Opens the given Impress files, starts the presentation and quits after they have finished.

.TP
\fB\-\-unaccept=\fIaccept\-string\fR
Closes an acceptor that was created with \fB\-\-accept\fR option.

Use \fB\-\-unaccept\fR=\fIall\fR to close all open acceptors.

.TP
\fB\-\-terminate_after_init\fR
Starts LO and terminates after it registers some UNO services.
Doesn't show the splash during startup.

.TP
\fB\-\-view \fIfile\fR...
Opens the given files read-only creating a temporary copy of them at $TMPDIR.

.TP
\fB\-\-web\fR
Starts with a new HTML document.

.TP
\fB\-\-writer\fR
Starts with a new Writer document.

.SH TROUBLESHOOTING PROBLEMS
See \fBhttp://wiki.documentfoundation.org/BugReport\fR for more details on how to report
bugs in LibreOffice.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR http://www.documentfoundation.org/

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was created by Rene Engelhard <rene@debian.org> for
the Debian GNU/Linux Distribution, because the original package does not have
one. It was updated for Novell by Petr Mladek <petr.mladek@novell.com> and
adapted for LibreOffice by Philipp Weissenbacher <philipp.weissenbacher@gmail.com>.
