libreofficekit/README.md, before:

# LibreOfficeKit

LibreOfficeKit can be used for accessing LibreOffice functionality
through C/C++, without any need to use UNO.

For now it only offers document conversion (in addition to an experimental
tiled rendering API).

## Integrating LOK Into Other Software

LOK functionality can be accessed by including `LibreOfficeKit.h[xx]` in your
program.

LOK initialisation (`lok_init`) requires the inclusion of `LibreOfficeKitInit.h` in
your program. If you use the C++ `LibreOfficeKit.hxx` header, it already includes
`LibreOfficeKitInit.h` for you.

(`LibreOfficeKit.hxx` is a simple and fully inlined C++ wrapper for the same
functionality as in `LibreOfficeKit.h`.)

An example program can be seen on:
<https://gitlab.com/ojwb/lloconv>

## Tiled Rendering

To use LOK Tiled Rendering you will need the following before the LOK includes:

    #define LOK_USE_UNSTABLE_API

(This must be define before ANY LOK header, i.e. including the Init header.)

Currently only bitmap-buffer rendering is supported, with a 32-bit BGRA
colorspace (further alternatives could feasibly be implemented as needed).
Scanlines are ordered top-down (whereas LibreOffice will internally default
to bottom-up).

## Tiled Editing

On top of the tiled rendering API, a set of new methods have been added to the
`lok::Document` class to allow basic editing, too. Communication between the LOK
client and LibreOffice is a two-way channel. The client can initiate an action
by calling the above mentioned methods. The most important methods for the
client -> LibreOffice communication are:

- `initializeForRendering()`, expected to be called right after
  `lok::Office::documentLoad()` returned a `lok::Document*`.
- `postKeyEvent()`, expected to be called when the user provides input on the
  (soft-)keyboard.
- `postMouseEvent()`, expected to be called when the user generated a touch or
  mouse event.

In general, all coordinates are always in absolute twips (20th of a point, or:
1" = 1440 twips). See `lok::Document` in `LibreOfficeKit.hxx` for a full list of
methods and their documentation.

The other way around (LibreOffice -> LOK client) is implemented using a
callback. A LOK client can register a callback using the registerCallback()
method. Whenever editing requires some action on the client side, a callback
event is emitted. The callback types are described using the
`LibreOfficeKitCallbackType` enumeration in `LibreOfficeKitEnums.h`, the callback
function signature itself is provided by the LibreOfficeKitCallback typedef in
`LibreOfficeKitTypes.h`. The most important callback types:

- `LOK_CALLBACK_INVALIDATE_TILES`: drop all tiles cached on client-side that
  intersect with the provided rectangle
- `LOK_CALLBACK_INVALIDATE_VISIBLE_CURSOR`: need to set the position and/or the
  size of the cursor
- `LOK_CALLBACK_TEXT_SELECTION`: need to adjust the selection overlay provided
  by the client as the set of rectangles describing the selection overlay
  changed

There are currently two known LOK clients supporting tiled editing:

- `gtktiledviewer` (see below), which allows testing the LOK core implementation
  on (desktop) Linux
- (LibreOffice on) Android

Core has next to no idea what is the LOK client, so for effective development,
it's recommended that the core part is developed against `gtktiledviewer`, and
once a feature works there, then implement the Android part, with its slower
development iteration (slow uploading to the device, the need to link all
object files into a single `.so`, etc).

* Debugging with gdb and `gtktiledviewer`

To run `gtktiledviewer`:

    bin/run gtktiledviewer --lo-path=$PWD/instdir/program path/to/test.odt

To receive all incoming events from core use `G_MESSAGES_DEBUG=all`

    G_MESSAGES_DEBUG=all bin/run gtktiledviewer --lo-path=$PWD/instdir/program ../test.odt

To debug with `gdb`:

    export LO_TRACE='gdb --tui --args'

before `bin/run`, this will run gtktiledviewer in the debugger instead.

### Building and running gtktiledviewer on Windows

A pre-requisite is pre-built GTK3 libraries. See [official GTK documentation](https://www.gtk.org/docs/installations/windows/).
Building of gtktiledviewer on Windows is enabled by passing

    --with-gtk3-build=<path/to/GTK3/build/directory>

to configure.

Running the compiled executable requires GTK's bin in PATH:

    PATH=${PATH}:/cygdrive/c/gtk-build/gtk/x64/release/bin bin/run gtktiledviewer --lo-path=$(cygpath -am $PWD/instdir/program) ../test.odt

## LibreOfficeKitGtk

Currently consists of only a very basic GTK document viewer widget.

The widget uses `g_info()` instead of `SAL_INFO()`, use the `G_MESSAGES_DEBUG=all`
environment variable to display those messages.

Commit message:

lok: document some guidelines on how to not end up with too many callbacks
In general, the existing command dispatch, command value getter &
command state callback is meant to be enough for most needs.

(cherry picked from commit ff0cb77a6c9fec7127c26f63a420e877ac4f852e)

Change-Id: Ibba5455b461a8eac052f17ac5e824ddea42755f3
Reviewed-on: https://gerrit.libreoffice.org/c/core/+/168240
Tested-by: Jenkins CollaboraOffice <jenkinscollaboraoffice@gmail.com>
Reviewed-by: Caolán McNamara <caolan.mcnamara@collabora.com>
Tested-by: Caolán McNamara <caolan.mcnamara@collabora.com>

libreofficekit/README.md, after:

# LibreOfficeKit

LibreOfficeKit can be used for accessing LibreOffice functionality
through C/C++, without any need to use UNO.

For now it only offers document conversion (in addition to an experimental
tiled rendering API).

## Integrating LOK Into Other Software

LOK functionality can be accessed by including `LibreOfficeKit.h[xx]` in your
program.

LOK initialisation (`lok_init`) requires the inclusion of `LibreOfficeKitInit.h` in
your program. If you use the C++ `LibreOfficeKit.hxx` header, it already includes
`LibreOfficeKitInit.h` for you.

(`LibreOfficeKit.hxx` is a simple and fully inlined C++ wrapper for the same
functionality as in `LibreOfficeKit.h`.)

An example program can be seen on:
<https://gitlab.com/ojwb/lloconv>

## Tiled Rendering

To use LOK Tiled Rendering you will need the following before the LOK includes:

    #define LOK_USE_UNSTABLE_API

(This must be define before ANY LOK header, i.e. including the Init header.)

Currently only bitmap-buffer rendering is supported, with a 32-bit BGRA
colorspace (further alternatives could feasibly be implemented as needed).
Scanlines are ordered top-down (whereas LibreOffice will internally default
to bottom-up).

## Tiled Editing

On top of the tiled rendering API, a set of new methods have been added to the
`lok::Document` class to allow basic editing, too. Communication between the LOK
client and LibreOffice is a two-way channel. The client can initiate an action
by calling the above mentioned methods. The most important methods for the
client -> LibreOffice communication are:

- `initializeForRendering()`, expected to be called right after
  `lok::Office::documentLoad()` returned a `lok::Document*`.
- `postKeyEvent()`, expected to be called when the user provides input on the
  (soft-)keyboard.
- `postMouseEvent()`, expected to be called when the user generated a touch or
  mouse event.

In general, all coordinates are always in absolute twips (20th of a point, or:
1" = 1440 twips). See `lok::Document` in `LibreOfficeKit.hxx` for a full list of
methods and their documentation.

The other way around (LibreOffice -> LOK client) is implemented using a
callback. A LOK client can register a callback using the registerCallback()
method. Whenever editing requires some action on the client side, a callback
event is emitted. The callback types are described using the
`LibreOfficeKitCallbackType` enumeration in `LibreOfficeKitEnums.h`, the callback
function signature itself is provided by the LibreOfficeKitCallback typedef in
`LibreOfficeKitTypes.h`. The most important callback types:

- `LOK_CALLBACK_INVALIDATE_TILES`: drop all tiles cached on client-side that
  intersect with the provided rectangle
- `LOK_CALLBACK_INVALIDATE_VISIBLE_CURSOR`: need to set the position and/or the
  size of the cursor
- `LOK_CALLBACK_TEXT_SELECTION`: need to adjust the selection overlay provided
  by the client as the set of rectangles describing the selection overlay
  changed

There are currently two known LOK clients supporting tiled editing:

- `gtktiledviewer` (see below), which allows testing the LOK core implementation
  on (desktop) Linux
- (LibreOffice on) Android

Core has next to no idea what is the LOK client, so for effective development,
it's recommended that the core part is developed against `gtktiledviewer`, and
once a feature works there, then implement the Android part, with its slower
development iteration (slow uploading to the device, the need to link all
object files into a single `.so`, etc).

### LOK API guidelines

Introducing explicit new API under `include/LibreOfficeKit/` adds type safety but listing each &
every micro-feature in those headers don't scale. Before extending those headers, consider using one
of the following alternatives, which require no changes to these headers:

- LOK client → core direction: use `postUnoCommand()` to dispatch an UNO command, optionally with
  parameters.
- core → LOK client direction:
  - Use `getCommandValues()` when this is initiated by the LOK client.
  - Use `LOK_CALLBACK_STATE_CHANGED` with a JSON payload when this is initiated by core.

It's useful to stick to these if possible, only add new C++ API when these are not a good fit.

* Debugging with gdb and `gtktiledviewer`

To run `gtktiledviewer`:

    bin/run gtktiledviewer --lo-path=$PWD/instdir/program path/to/test.odt

To receive all incoming events from core use `G_MESSAGES_DEBUG=all`

    G_MESSAGES_DEBUG=all bin/run gtktiledviewer --lo-path=$PWD/instdir/program ../test.odt

To debug with `gdb`:

    export LO_TRACE='gdb --tui --args'

before `bin/run`, this will run gtktiledviewer in the debugger instead.

### Building and running gtktiledviewer on Windows

A pre-requisite is pre-built GTK3 libraries. See [official GTK documentation](https://www.gtk.org/docs/installations/windows/).
Building of gtktiledviewer on Windows is enabled by passing

    --with-gtk3-build=<path/to/GTK3/build/directory>

to configure.

Running the compiled executable requires GTK's bin in PATH:

    PATH=${PATH}:/cygdrive/c/gtk-build/gtk/x64/release/bin bin/run gtktiledviewer --lo-path=$(cygpath -am $PWD/instdir/program) ../test.odt

## LibreOfficeKitGtk

Currently consists of only a very basic GTK document viewer widget.

The widget uses `g_info()` instead of `SAL_INFO()`, use the `G_MESSAGES_DEBUG=all`
environment variable to display those messages.
