emfio/README.md, before:

# WMF/EMF/EMF+ Reader

## Introduction
The **emfio** module is used to read **WMF** (Windows Metafile), **EMF**
(Enhanced Metafiles) and also **EMF+** (enhanced EMF) files [1], which are
binary formats for vector images from Microsoft. These files can contain vector
graphics, bitmap components and text.

This folder contains `emfio/source/reader` which is used for reading the
WMF/EMF/EMF+ files, either directly, or inside a document. For embedding Windows
Metafiles inside a document, one can use "Insert -> Picture -> From File" to put
such a file into the document. It is possible to export the Windows Metafile
by using right click and choose "save".

Most of the records of WMF/EMF formats come from the Windows Graphics Device
Interface (GDI) API, and for EMF+ they comes from the newer Windows GDI+.

More information about rendering Windows Metafiles can be found in the
[Visual Class Library (VCL)](../vcl) and also in the
[GDIMetaFile](../vcl/README.GDIMetaFile) documentation.

An example demo that renders a metafile using `vcl` be seen by invoking:

    ./bin/run mtfdemo example.wmf

assuming that example.wmf is available in the current directory.
The demo code structure is described in [GDIMetaFile](../vcl/README.GDIMetaFile)
documentation.

[1] [Windows Meta File](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Metafile),
Wikipedia

## EMF+ Specifics
Handling EMF+ is to some extent different from handling WMF/EMF. More
information can be found in the [VCL](../vcl)
documentation.

## Limitations
Not all the WMF/EMF/EMF+ records are supported by this module. Unsupported
records are marked as "not implemented", and a warning message will printed
if they are actually read within a file. You can file a bug report for
implementing these records.

Currently, these records are not implemented (specified in
wmfreader.cxx):

W_META_SETRELABS W_META_SETPOLYFILLMODE W_META_SETSTRETCHBLTMODE
W_META_SETTEXTCHAREXTRA W_META_SETTEXTJUSTIFICATION W_META_FLOODFILL
W_META_FILLREGION W_META_FRAMEREGION W_META_INVERTREGION
W_META_PAINTREGION W_META_DRAWTEXT W_META_SETMAPPERFLAGS
W_META_SETDIBTODEV W_META_REALIZEPALETTE W_META_ANIMATEPALETTE
W_META_SETPALENTRIES W_META_RESIZEPALETTE W_META_EXTFLOODFILL
W_META_RESETDC W_META_STARTDOC W_META_STARTPAGE W_META_ENDPAGE
W_META_ABORTDOC W_META_ENDDOC

And these records are not implemented (specified in emfreader.cxx):

EMR_MASKBLT EMR_PLGBLT EMR_SETDIBITSTODEVICE EMR_FRAMERGN
EMR_INVERTRGN EMR_FLATTENPATH EMR_WIDENPATH EMR_POLYDRAW
EMR_SETARCDIRECTION EMR_SETPALETTEENTRIES EMR_RESIZEPALETTE
EMR_EXTFLOODFILL EMR_ANGLEARC EMR_SETCOLORADJUSTMENT EMR_POLYDRAW16
EMR_CREATECOLORSPACE EMR_SETCOLORSPACE EMR_DELETECOLORSPACE
EMR_GLSRECORD EMR_GLSBOUNDEDRECORD EMR_PIXELFORMAT EMR_DRAWESCAPE
EMR_EXTESCAPE EMR_STARTDOC EMR_SMALLTEXTOUT EMR_FORCEUFIMAPPING
EMR_NAMEDESCAPE EMR_COLORCORRECTPALETTE EMR_SETICMPROFILEA
EMR_SETICMPROFILEW EMR_TRANSPARENTBLT EMR_TRANSPARENTDIB
EMR_GRADIENTFILL EMR_SETLINKEDUFIS EMR_SETMAPPERFLAGS EMR_SETICMMODE
EMR_CREATEMONOBRUSH EMR_SETBRUSHORGEX EMR_SETMETARGN EMR_SETMITERLIMIT
EMR_EXCLUDECLIPRECT EMR_REALIZEPALETTE EMR_SELECTPALETTE
EMR_CREATEPALETTE EMR_ALPHADIBBLEND EMR_SETTEXTJUSTIFICATION

Due to the difference on the fonts available on various platforms, the outcome
of text rendering can be different on Linux, Windows, macOS and elsewhere.

## Known Bugs
Known remaining bugs for this module is gathered here:

* [Bug 103859 \[META\] EMF/WMF (Enhanced/Windows Metafile) bugs and
enhancements](https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=103859)

## Dependencies
Direct dependencies for **emfio** are [**drawinglayer**](../drawinglayer) and
[**sax**](../sax).

## Tools
Several tools are available for inspecting WMF/EMF/EMF+ files, which are binary
formats. Some of them are:

* [mso-dumper](https://git.libreoffice.org/mso-dumper/): Reads and dumps various
  binary formats from Microsoft including WMF/EMF/EMF+. The output is in a
  custom XML format. emf-dump.py and wmf-dump.py are usable.
* [RE-lab (Formerly OLEToy)](https://github.com/renyxa/re-lab): Reads, dumps and
modifies several binary formats from Microsoft including WMF/EMF/EMF+, and also
other companies.
* [EMF+ diagnostics reporting tool](https://github.com/chrissherlock/emfplus-decoder)

## Related Software
* [libemf](http://libemf.sourceforge.net/)
* [libwmf](https://github.com/caolanm/libwmf)

## References
Documentation for WMF/EMF/EMF+ formats are available on Microsoft website:

* [\[MS-WMF\]: Windows Metafile Format](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-wmf/4813e7fd-52d0-4f42-965f-228c8b7488d2)
* [\[MS-EMF\]: Enhanced Metafile Format](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-emf/91c257d7-c39d-4a36-9b1f-63e3f73d30ca)
* [\[MS-EMFPLUS\]: Enhanced Metafile Format Plus Extensions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-emfplus/5f92c789-64f2-46b5-9ed4-15a9bb0946c6)

Commit message:

Improve emfio module documentation
* Describe how it works
* Fix the example
* Better formatting
* Fix typos

Change-Id: Ia568ca522453a6c3da1502bd2e7c3a8ce3a29fc2
Reviewed-on: https://gerrit.libreoffice.org/c/core/+/123987
Tested-by: Ilmari Lauhakangas <ilmari.lauhakangas@libreoffice.org>
Tested-by: Jenkins
Reviewed-by: Ilmari Lauhakangas <ilmari.lauhakangas@libreoffice.org>

emfio/README.md, after:

# WMF/EMF/EMF+ Reader

## Introduction
The **emfio** module is used to read **WMF** (Windows Metafile), **EMF**
(Enhanced Metafiles) and also **EMF+** (enhanced EMF) files [1], which are
binary formats for vector images from Microsoft. These files can contain vector
graphics, bitmap components and text.

This folder contains `emfio/source/reader` which is used for reading the
WMF/EMF/EMF+ files, either directly, or inside a document. For embedding Windows
Metafiles inside a document, one can use "Insert -> Picture -> From File" to put
such a file into the document. It is possible to export the Windows Metafile
by using right click and choose "save".

Most of the records of WMF/EMF formats come from the Windows Graphics Device.
For Interface (GDI) API and EMF+ they come from the newer Windows GDI+.

More information about rendering Windows Metafiles can be found in the
[Visual Class Library (VCL)](../vcl) and also in the
[GDIMetaFile](../vcl/README.GDIMetaFile) documentation.

An example demo that renders a metafile using `vcl` be seen by invoking:

    ./bin/run mtfdemo odk/examples/basic/forms_and_controls/burger.wmf

This opens the burger.wmf file from the ODK examples.
The demo code structure is described in [GDIMetaFile](../vcl/README.GDIMetaFile)
documentation.

[1] [Windows Meta File](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows\_Metafile),
Wikipedia

## EMF+ Specifics
Handling EMF+ is to some extent different from handling WMF/EMF. More
information can be found in the [VCL](../vcl)
documentation.

## How does it work?
`emfio` module takes a byte array and turns it into a `drawinglayer` primitive container. The rendering is done via `drawinglayer` primitives. For more information, you should refer to [VCL](../vcl) documentation.

## Limitations
Not all the WMF/EMF/EMF+ records are supported by this module. Unsupported
records are marked as "not implemented", and a warning message will printed
if they are actually read within a file. You can file a bug report for
implementing these records.

Currently, these records are not implemented (specified in
`wmfreader.cxx`):

```
W_META_SETRELABS W_META_SETPOLYFILLMODE W_META_SETSTRETCHBLTMODE
W_META_SETTEXTCHAREXTRA W_META_SETTEXTJUSTIFICATION W_META_FLOODFILL
W_META_FILLREGION W_META_FRAMEREGION W_META_INVERTREGION
W_META_PAINTREGION W_META_DRAWTEXT W_META_SETMAPPERFLAGS
W_META_SETDIBTODEV W_META_REALIZEPALETTE W_META_ANIMATEPALETTE
W_META_SETPALENTRIES W_META_RESIZEPALETTE W_META_EXTFLOODFILL
W_META_RESETDC W_META_STARTDOC W_META_STARTPAGE W_META_ENDPAGE
W_META_ABORTDOC W_META_ENDDOC
```

And these records are not implemented (specified in `emfreader.cxx`):

```
EMR_MASKBLT EMR_PLGBLT EMR_SETDIBITSTODEVICE EMR_FRAMERGN
EMR_INVERTRGN EMR_FLATTENPATH EMR_WIDENPATH EMR_POLYDRAW
EMR_SETARCDIRECTION EMR_SETPALETTEENTRIES EMR_RESIZEPALETTE
EMR_EXTFLOODFILL EMR_ANGLEARC EMR_SETCOLORADJUSTMENT EMR_POLYDRAW16
EMR_CREATECOLORSPACE EMR_SETCOLORSPACE EMR_DELETECOLORSPACE
EMR_GLSRECORD EMR_GLSBOUNDEDRECORD EMR_PIXELFORMAT EMR_DRAWESCAPE
EMR_EXTESCAPE EMR_STARTDOC EMR_SMALLTEXTOUT EMR_FORCEUFIMAPPING
EMR_NAMEDESCAPE EMR_COLORCORRECTPALETTE EMR_SETICMPROFILEA
EMR_SETICMPROFILEW EMR_TRANSPARENTBLT EMR_TRANSPARENTDIB
EMR_GRADIENTFILL EMR_SETLINKEDUFIS EMR_SETMAPPERFLAGS EMR_SETICMMODE
EMR_CREATEMONOBRUSH EMR_SETBRUSHORGEX EMR_SETMETARGN EMR_SETMITERLIMIT
EMR_EXCLUDECLIPRECT EMR_REALIZEPALETTE EMR_SELECTPALETTE
EMR_CREATEPALETTE EMR_ALPHADIBBLEND EMR_SETTEXTJUSTIFICATION
```

Due to the difference on the fonts available on various platforms, the outcome
of text rendering can be different on Linux, Windows, macOS and elsewhere.

## Known Bugs
Known remaining bugs for this module is gathered here:

* [Bug 103859 \[META\] EMF/WMF (Enhanced/Windows Metafile) bugs and
enhancements](https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/show\_bug.cgi?id=103859)

## Dependencies
Direct dependencies for **emfio** are [**drawinglayer**](../drawinglayer) and
[**sax**](../sax).

## Tools
Several tools are available for inspecting WMF/EMF/EMF+ files, which are binary
formats. Some of them are:

* [mso-dumper](https://git.libreoffice.org/mso-dumper/): Reads and dumps various
  binary formats from Microsoft including WMF/EMF/EMF+. The output is in a
  custom XML format. emf-dump.py and wmf-dump.py are usable.
* [RE-lab (Formerly OLEToy)](https://github.com/renyxa/re-lab): Reads, dumps and
modifies several binary formats from Microsoft including WMF/EMF/EMF+, and also
other companies.
* [EMF+ diagnostics reporting tool](https://github.com/chrissherlock/emfplus-decoder)

## Related Software
* [libemf](http://libemf.sourceforge.net/)
* [libwmf](https://github.com/caolanm/libwmf)

## References
Documentation for WMF/EMF/EMF+ formats are available on Microsoft website:

* [\[MS-WMF\]: Windows Metafile Format](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows\_protocols/ms-wmf/4813e7fd-52d0-4f42-965f-228c8b7488d2)
* [\[MS-EMF\]: Enhanced Metafile Format](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows\_protocols/ms-emf/91c257d7-c39d-4a36-9b1f-63e3f73d30ca)
* [\[MS-EMFPLUS\]: Enhanced Metafile Format Plus Extensions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows\_protocols/ms-emfplus/5f92c789-64f2-46b5-9ed4-15a9bb0946c6)
